# Voice-Assistant-Using-Python
AI VOICE ASSISTANT
What is voice AI? 
Voice AI is a conversational AI tool that uses voice commands to receive and interpret directives. With this technology, devices can interact and respond to human questions in natural language.

With the ability to understand the human language and communicate with them, the voice AI chatbot has offered a great opportunity to businesses to serve customers. It helps speed up processes, increase productivity and scale operations. 

According to the Pew Research Center, approximately 55% of virtual assistant users prefer speech recognition apps as they offer hands-free operation of devices. With the current trend, the voice-based speaker market could be worth $30 billion by the year 2024. 

The voice AI assistants, namely Amazon Echo, Siri, Google Assistant, Google Home, Amazon Alexa, and others are a few incredible advances that have replaced the need for touchscreen devices. Experts expect voice-based shopping will reach $40 billion in 2022.

With the increasing use of the voice AI platform, one is curious to know how does voice recognition work? Understanding how voice control technology work is essential to know the key factors to tackle while adopting voice AI.


The basic working of voice AI
The voice AI is based on understanding the human language and interpreting the same to offer appropriate results. AI programming perfects its algorithms to constantly provide the best rational answer. A mixture of AI and automation helps develop speech systems.

Like when two people communicate, there is encoding and decoding of the message; voice AI works similarly. Below, we discuss the steps involved in speech recognition in AI. 
1. Understanding the speech to text
The first step of the process is to understand the speech of the speaker. The sound waves generated by the speaker need to be interpreted and analysed to break them down into fractions of text.

Companies use the pre-speech recognition technique for this step. User’s words are broken down into groups by the AI. In the process, the words are converted into bits that are easily understandable by the system. 



2. Filtering ambient sounds
There are chances that in addition to the words spoken by the user, some ambient sound is picked up by the AI. Say connecting with a call centre while on the road can increase the chances of recording the surrounding disturbances like horns or announcements going on in the message.

Being sensitive to such pitches, the AI can separate the message from noise with the help of a neural network.

3. Transfer to neural processing
The voice AI is based on the neural networks that replicate the neurons in a human brain. The set of data that reaches the system is further broken down to find the best match.

Reading and analysing every single letter of the message, the AI tries to analyze the sentence’s meaning and match it with the best possible outcomes.



4. Syntactic and semantic techniques 
The voice AI is now ready to act. Using syntactic and semantic techniques for analysing text, the AI gets a deeper understanding of the context under consideration.

Here, the syntactic analysis further breaks down the natural language for the grammatical rules. Moreover, semantic analysis is based on understanding the meaning of the sentences and words.

5. Response evaluation
The AI reaches a specific range of conclusions by carefully examining the question of the user. The algorithm further analyses the most potential solution and filters the responses to find the perfect match to the query.

6. Communicating to the user in the language
In the last step, the selected response is communicated to the user. Here the user receives the response to the query while at the same time AI converts the data in audio format. The AI also saves the response for future reference. 
